docs: document 1.76 List and Subscribe APIs (#27380)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/develop/accessing-data/grpc/using-grpc.mdx

```shell
$ grpcurl -d '{ "digest": "J4NvV5iQZQFm1xKPYv9ffDCCPW6cZ4yFKsCqFUiDX5L4" }' <FULL_NODE_URL> sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/GetTransaction
```

### Get the transactions in a particular checkpoint

```shell
$ grpcurl -d '{ "sequence_number": "164329987", "read_mask": { "paths": ["transactions"]} }' <FULL_NODE_URL> sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/GetCheckpoint
```

### Get the latest information for a coin type

```shell
$ grpcurl -d '{ "coin_type": "0x2::sui::SUI" }' <FULL_NODE_URL> sui.rpc.v2.StateService/GetCoinInfo
```

### List the objects owned by a particular address

```shell
$ grpcurl -d '{ "owner": "0x94096a6a54129234237759c66e6ef1037224fb3102a0ae29d33b490281c8e4d5" }' <FULL_NODE_URL> sui.rpc.v2.StateService/ListOwnedObjects
```

### List the dynamic fields in a particular object

```shell
$ grpcurl -d '{ "parent": "0xb57fba584a700a5bcb40991e1b2e6bf68b0f3896d767a0da92e69de73de226ac" }' <FULL_NODE_URL> sui.rpc.v2.StateService/ListDynamicFields
```

### List transactions matching a filter

Use `LedgerService.ListTransactions` to query transactions over a checkpoint range with a `TransactionFilter`. The service returns a server-side stream.

> Run the following command:

Reviewer: Is a command missing here?

## Access streaming data with Buf

`grpcurl` handles server-side streaming for finite calls like `LedgerService.List*`. For indefinite `SubscriptionService` streams, the [Buf CLI](https://buf.build/docs/cli/) provides better timeout and reconnection control.

### Subscribe to checkpoints

```shell
$ buf curl --protocol grpc https://<FULL_NODE_URL>/sui.rpc.v2.SubscriptionService/SubscribeCheckpoints -d '{ "readMask": "sequenceNumber,digest,summary.timestamp" }'  --timeout 1m
```

> ### Subscribe to transactions with a filter

Reviewer: is this a dup header?

> $ grpcurl -d '{ "parent": "0xb57fba584a700a5bcb40991e1b2e6bf68b0f3896d767a0da92e69de73de226ac" }' <full node URL:port> sui.rpc.v2.StateService/ListDynamicFields
> ```
> 
> ### List transactions matching a filter
> 
> Use `LedgerService.ListTransactions` to query transactions over a checkpoint range with a `TransactionFilter`. The response is a server-side stream.
> 
> ```shell
> $ grpcurl -d '{
>   "start_checkpoint": "1000000",
>   "end_checkpoint": "1000100",
>   "filter": {
>     "terms": [{
>       "literals": [{
>         "sender": { "address": "0xADDRESS" }
>       }]
>     }]
>   }
> }' <full node URL:port> sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/ListTransactions
> ```
> 
> ### List events matching a filter
> 
> Use `LedgerService.ListEvents` to query events over a checkpoint range with an `EventFilter`.
> 
> ```shell
> $ grpcurl -d '{
>   "start_checkpoint": "1000000",
>   "end_checkpoint": "1000100",
>   "filter": {
>     "terms": [{
>       "literals": [{
>         "event_type": { "event_type": "0xPACKAGE::module::MyEvent" }
>       }]
>     }]
>   }
> }' <full node URL:port> sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/ListEvents
> ```
> 
> ### List checkpoints
> 
> Use `LedgerService.ListCheckpoints` to query a range of checkpoints.
> 
> ```shell
> $ grpcurl -d '{
>   "start_checkpoint": "1000000",
>   "end_checkpoint": "1000010",
>   "read_mask": { "paths": ["digest", "summary"] }
> }' <full node URL:port> sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/ListCheckpoints
> ```

Author: ````suggestion
### List transactions matching a filter

Use `LedgerService.ListTransactions` to query transactions over a checkpoint range with a `TransactionFilter`. The service returns a server-side stream.

Run the following command:

```sh
$ grpcurl -d '{
  "start_checkpoint": "1000000",
  "end_checkpoint": "1000100",
  "filter": {
    "terms": [{
      "literals": [{
        "sender": { "address": "0xADDRESS" }
      }]
    }]
  }
}' FULLNODE_URL:PORT sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/ListTransactions
```

### List events matching a filter

Use `LedgerService.ListEvents` to query events over a checkpoint range with an `EventFilter`.

Run the following command:

```sh
$ grpcurl -d '{
  "start_checkpoint": "1000000",
  "end_checkpoint": "1000100",
  "filter": {
    "terms": [{
      "literals": [{
        "event_type": { "event_type": "0xPACKAGE::module::MyEvent" }
      }]
    }]
  }
}' FULLNODE_URL:PORT sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/ListEvents
```

### List checkpoints

Use `LedgerService.ListCheckpoints` to query a range of checkpoints.

Run the following command:

```sh
$ grpcurl -d '{
  "start_checkpoint": "1000000",
  "end_checkpoint": "1000010",
  "read_mask": { "paths": ["digest", "summary"] }
}' FULLNODE_URL:PORT sui.rpc.v2.LedgerService/ListCheckpoints
```
````

## Access streaming data with Buf

`grpcurl` handles server-side streaming for finite calls like `LedgerService.List*`. For indefinite `SubscriptionService` streams, the [Buf CLI](https://buf.build/docs/cli/) provides better timeout and reconnection control.

### Subscribe to checkpoints

```shell
$ buf curl --protocol grpc https://<full node URL>/sui.rpc.v2.SubscriptionService/SubscribeCheckpoints -d '{ "readMask": "sequenceNumber,digest,summary.timestamp" }'  --timeout 1m

> ```
> 
> ### Subscribe to transactions with a filter
> 
> ```shell
> $ buf curl --protocol grpc \
>   https://<full node URL>/sui.rpc.v2.SubscriptionService/SubscribeTransactions \
>   -d '{
>     "filter": {
>       "terms": [{
>         "literals": [{
>           "sender": { "address": "0xADDRESS" }
>         }]
>       }]
>     }
>   }' \
>   --timeout 5m
> ```
> 
> ### Subscribe to events with a filter
> 
> ```shell
> $ buf curl --protocol grpc \
>   https://<full node URL>/sui.rpc.v2.SubscriptionService/SubscribeEvents \
>   -d '{
>     "filter": {
>       "terms": [{
>         "literals": [{
>           "event_type": { "event_type": "0xPACKAGE::module::MyEvent" }
>         }]
>       }]
>     }
>   }' \
>   --timeout 5m
> ```

Author: ````suggestion
### Subscribe to transactions with a filter

Use `SubscriptionService.SubscribeTransactions` to stream transactions that match a `TransactionFilter` from the current tip of the chain.

Run the following command:

```sh
$ buf curl --protocol grpc \
  https://FULLNODE_URL/sui.rpc.v2.SubscriptionService/SubscribeTransactions \
  -d '{
    "filter": {
      "terms": [{
        "literals": [{
          "sender": { "address": "0xADDRESS" }
        }]
      }]
    }
  }' \
  --timeout 5m
```

### Subscribe to events with a filter

Use `SubscriptionService.SubscribeEvents` to stream events that match an `EventFilter` from the current tip of the chain.

Run the following command:

```sh
$ buf curl --protocol grpc \
  https://FULLNODE_URL/sui.rpc.v2.SubscriptionService/SubscribeEvents \
  -d '{
    "filter": {
      "terms": [{
        "literals": [{
          "event_type": { "event_type": "0xPACKAGE::module::MyEvent" }
        }]
      }]
    }
  }' \
  --timeout 5m
```
````
